We had more than two or three chances.
It was more like five or six chances.
Savarino cut in twice, in the first half, Sam almost on the goal line.
It comes down this.
I’m getting sick and tired of coming out here after games and say ‘we deserved more out of the game.
 For me we all need to grow up a little bit.
Yes, we’re a young team, but it has to be pushed into the past and we have to be a bit more savvy in certain situations, we have to get a bit more clinical.
We have to start games well and I think we started the game well tonight against one of the hottest teams in the league.
Getting back and preventing.
Seattle caused us some problems and we have to learn to deal with things like that.
The end of the first half and into the second half, we changed and we started really playing.
I’m challenging the coaching staff and my players so that the days of me saying the boys did well tonight but it just didn’t go our way.
Those days have to be over.
It starts with me.
How do we connect more passes to start the game? Lodeiro runs 14 kilometers a game and that’s a lot.
How can we grow up and do things like that and work like that and figure this out? Yes, we’re young compared to the league compared to other teams but that’s no excuse.
Let the critics point to that.
Let the fans point to that.
For me, we have to grow up and at times that we’ve won games and turned it on, and now to come back to this a little bit, it starts with me then my staff and the players.
Starting this week it isn’t going to be much different because we prepare the players.
I’m getting tired of preparing for other teams for how they play.
The league has gotten so much better and bigger and you’re almost forced to do it.
We have to take a look inside of ourselves now.
The next step is taking a look at everything.
We watch the game four times, by the time Monday comes around my staff and I have watched the game four times.
Challenging the guys that if they aren’t re-watching the games, this is a team sport.
But there are individual factors.
What could an individual have done differently? That’s a challenge I have for them.
This we’ll talk to the players about where it starts and it starts tomorrow and let’s be more.
It’s a competitive thing.
Let’s get more accountable every day at training and that starts with me.
The opening goal, within a minute, we came out — for whatever reason — a bit flat.
Everything I say tonight, everything I say in this, I’m going to say this right now — it all comes back to me.
I don’t want to keep saying that, it comes back to me, but it does.
I’m the coach, I prepare the team, I spend a week training them.
I thought this was one of our best weeks of training from preseason.
Last week was an unbelievable week of training and we had a good showing last week.
Tonight, I’ll say this, we donated two goals and a red card, and that’s why we lost this game.
If we finish 11 v.
11, we win this game tonight.
What character we showed, the players showed, down a man to score two goals, but against a young, energetic, talented passing team for 75 minutes, we’re going to get exhausted — and we did.
We shot ourselves in the foot and it starts with me, but some promising things out there.
I want my guys to fight, I want my guys to stand up for themselves, I want my guys to compete.
Do I think all four red cards were justified? Do you think they were? Honestly? Be honest with me.
Maybe you do.
… Do I wish we didn’t have four red cards? Absolutely.
Don’t get red cards, simple as that.
How do you discuss that? I’ve played, there is passion that goes into it.
I've said it for 20 years, players aren't robots.
It’s not a remote control game, I wish it was.
Maybe I would have one of my assistant coaches sit up stairs with a remote control.
Any time he would see an aggravation goal from a player or passion goal from a player, with someone standing over them and yelling at them you could press the X button on the controller, you know it’s the calming button.
We don’t have that! We are humans.
Do I think Damir meant to get up and headbutt him? No, not at all.
For anyone that knows Damir, they know he is the calmest guy on my team.
Do I think he got up and headbutted him? No, I don’t, that is just my opinion.
The positives were to me that going down a goal and a man, a man down scoring two goals and creating good stuff in transition.
I thought we were actually pretty good defensively a man down and it just takes one moment, one bad step, bad pass and it’s in the back of the net.
So I am always trying to look for positives.
The positive was that we scored two goals a man down, for 75 minutes and we gave them two goals and a red card.
Like I said, Luchi is a friend of mine and I respect what he’s doing there.
They did a great job in the beginning as far as limiting our opportunities to build out.
Like you said they were they were a very big sideline press team.
If you don’t find those second and third outlets through the lines or switch on a point of attack you get in trouble.
They did a very good job the first 10-12 minutes for sure.
Its a regular three-game losing streak.
It doesn’t matter how many players are on the field.
I understand what you’re saying but no it doesn’t give me comfort that we lost because we were down men.
At all.
Albert came back on Monday so we had Tuesday training, Wednesday rest because we have a day off, Thursday-Friday training.
No hesitation at all and I thought that he did well.
It was tough because we were under the gun the first 10-12 minutes and then four minutes later we’re down a man so I thought there were very good moments.
Corey came back, [his] first day of practice was Thursday and he had a bit of a head and chest cold so logic tells you after being away for that long.
.
he’s not someone that we felt comfortable starting.
Not because of any other reason than what I just said.
And Sam Johnson got back yesterday morning and didn’t train once with the team all week so Albert was here for three training sessions, felt good and didn’t feel anything from jetlag.
I thought he did well in key moments tonight and that’s why he came off towards the end as well because we knew his travel was going to catch up with him.
Listen, at the end of the day we lost 5-0, doesn’t matter how it happened.
The one top thing we can take away from this is that we did play very well in the first 30 minutes and the two goals in before the red cards we just gave to them.
So that we can take as a positive, but once you go down to ten men, then nine, obviously things just go out the window and you just fight to hold on.
You have to approach it honestly.
I feel for the guys, they worked hard tonight.
We gave them two goals.
The next three goals they earned from being men up.
Throw it out the window, move on to next weekend.
In this moment I’m looking forward to playing LAFC.
It’s going to be a tough game.
With the amount of players we have out with international duty we’re going to have to be creative.
We’ll think of something and figure it out and get it done.
Yeah, like we said during pre-season we really focused on that, because we’re on the road so much the first 15 games.
Last weekend's performance one shot on goal was excellent.
Tonight, I thought the first half all around -complete control of the game from us and defensively we were extremely sound.
The second half they obviously are trailing one nothing they come out of halftime and have a bit more energy, they have changed a bit tactically and we were able to hold off for the 1-nothing win.
There were key moments in the second half particularly outlined with Aaron going up against a lot of pace and did an excellent job.
Nedum and Marcelo shifted well together, and Everton and Kyle put incredible work in tonight.
So from a defensive standpoint it was a good performance and as a team for I would give it 60-75 minutes - it was an excellent performance.
We did our research on everything before we signed him, and we knew the qualities that he would bring and he’s shown them now the last two games.
His partnership with Kyle has been great since the pre-season.
They read very well off of each other, they’re both very like-minded in understanding the position.
He did an excellent job tonight in recognizing when to step out to key moments to put pressure on higher up the field but then Kyle dropped in there and we focused a lot of this week on that because of Vancouver’s midfield three they’re so interchangeable, they’re always on the move that we focused on that this week and I thought that Everton and Kyle did a fantastic job against him.
I saw Corey get played through and then he fell down.
And then the whistle was blown.
That’s what I saw from a distance.
I have not re-watched it yet, but I know that he went through and everything was checked out.
It was a good buildup from us though.
Good possession play and then being able to penetrate behind from lens out wide or from the middle and that’s what Corey did and it was a great run and a great penalty kick from Albert.
Yeah, Sam’s got quality.
I’ve been in this league for 20 years now.
I’ve been around foreign players every year.
To come and get adjusted to a league like this is not very easy.
With the travel, with the speed of play at times which is erratic at moments.
It’s a very big transition league.
Sam is doing very well, and he is somebody who I know is going to play a big roll for us starting now into the future.
I thought he had some good touches.
I thought he worked his ass off, won some head balls, and had a chance getting to goal which is partly him making himself available in that moment and partially us finding him.
I’m excited about having Sam here were bringing him along a little slow right now, but he’s going to play a key role for us this year.
Long story short, I met with the heads of the supporters groups over the break and I made a presentation for them about what I’m asking them to do and getting their feedback.
And we decided that we wanted to recognize you guys a bit more than just clapping.
They came up with the idea of a flag to be planted.
My whole thing was after every win we will do that.
We won’t do that after a tie or a loss, but we’ll always recognize you.
So I thought it was a good first one, I thought they were loud tonight, I thought the tifo was unbelievable.
I think they’re all coming together which is key for us and key for the environment in the stadium.
We brought Nick in because they were obviously pushing the forwards up being down 1-0.
And they were having a lot of 1 v 1 isolations out wide particularly on Aaron’s side and we weren’t able to shift quick enough because they had two or three guys centrally.
So to bring him in expands the back line a little bit.
That was the main reason for that.
As far as Nedum and Marcello going forward at first I was losing my mind screaming at them to get back, but then I recognized pretty quickly that they had a lot of guys back and they only left one guy up top going for that second goal.
So we were covered pretty well behind there.
Again, I met with them and talked of the importance of unity and importance of the environment in the stadium and that if they come together it can be a heck of a lot louder and urging us on together.
They agreed, so I don’t think it will happen overnight.
But, I think tonight was a good sign.
I know there were a couple more factions of supporter groups around the stadium, and they chose to stay where they are, and that’s ok.
But I think the environment was pretty damn good down there.
It’s going to be crucial.
If we can continue the rest of the season like the first two games: A tie on the road and a win at home, were going to be in pretty good shape.
It’s going to be extremely important for us to take care of business at home this year, like we did last year.
Well, if you look at the 82nd and 86th minute roughly, when we are winning one nothing and he is in the opposing teams eighteen that’s not something I am encouraging.
That’s something we are continuing to talk to him about.
You know, he is obviously a very offensive player, having been a forward or winger his whole life.
But those are the key moments to kill a game off that we cannot leave ourselves exposed.
You know, early in the game first half, second half if it is 0-0 or if we are losing, yes, I want him to be in the attacking half.
But he also has to learn, which we are continuing to talk to him about is to read the game and read the moment and know what the most important thing here.
You know, winning one nothing or winning two nothing, to me I could care less if it’s one or two to nothing, as long as we win.
So to protect ourselves a little more that’s something we are certainly going to continue talk to Brooks and show him some video after tonight.
Building off last year we dropped the line a little bit.
We made it difficult for their strengths, which is guys like Manotas, Elis, and Quioto getting in behind.
I thought they did very well there.
We transitioned excellent first half out of it to get some clear chances to goal.
Our goal was a very good moment for us.
A slip up for us, I thought Nedum was very tight for that goal, got around him a little bit but there was also a mix up on our right side defensively to allow a cross to come in.
Other than that, we held on.
We worked hard.
We could have been a little more aggressive, but I think when we went a man up our legs were tired.
Overall it’s a good point on the road and something to build on next week for home.
On if the players have set the tone that he wanted this season on the road:
Well we have 16 more games on the road so tonight was a good start.
I think we have to get cleaner obviously—it’s the first game.
We have to get cleaner when we play out of that block, but I thought for a defensive performance the block was very good.
The movement was very good about denying the little gaps that we are playing to in transition for their key players.
On the performances of Everton Luiz and Sam Johnson:
Well, I thought Everton and Kyle played very well.
When one got a bit more aggressive the other one held them which is what we need.
I thought Everton had very good clean ups as far as tackles as far as breaking up plays and his distribution was very good at the back.
Sam came on a bit late due to his lack of minutes in the pre-season because of injury.
I thought he was dangerous with is pace, with his pressure on the defense.
Overall it’s comfortable.
On the number of shots they had on goal:
We came in tonight with a mentality of let’s try to frustrate a little bit, give them no space which means we must drop a little bit deeper.
But for me it was very key how we were going to transition out of that.
Again, in the first half I thought we did excellent, but we got a goal with it.
Even in the second half at times, but I think we let off a little coming out of halftime sitting a little deeper.
But again, that could be early season legs and stuff.
But overall, I thought that both sides of the ball we were alright tonight.
On what he will take from this game to build on those coming up:
Well again it’s a mature point—it’s mentality was good there to recognize where I was last year, I really wanted to push it on the road.
The players wanted to push it but the road at times is not the place to push it.
You must be a lot more pragmatic on the road than you are at home and I thought tonight, again, the discipline, the understanding of how we wanted to defend was excellent so from here on out it’s got to be the standard.
Hopefully the standard gets raised throughout the next road games.
On how he liked the way the attacking four played as a unit:
Again, it starts with defense.
We’re on the road and focused on that.
I thought they had pressure, they had movement.
Their patience was very good and again when their legs were feeling very well early on we transitioned excellent out of that.
We found the highest guy to play off of because they had so many numbers committed forward I thought.
 Damir did a good job with the hold up and I thought guys like Savarino and Corey stretched their backline a little bit and Albert pulled the strings.
I don’t think we found Albert enough tonight but when we did, I thought he pulled the strings well and he kept the play going.
I’m trying to think of a time that I had more pride to be honest with you, after that second half.
I was blown away by their reaction against a team that is a very good team at home.
To go down 2-0; to be without two key players; to see us take it to them in the second half and have two clear cut chances to tie the game and take the series.
But, it’s a game of inches.
For now, all I can say is I’m extremely proud.
I think any RSL supporter out there watching tonight should realize how much these guys put in and they should be proud.
Like I said countless times, we were in the playoffs, above the line, for four or five straight months.
So, I think it was justified that we got in.
With the LAFC game, I didn’t think I could get prouder of that performance.
I think that first game, that equalizing goal that they had, was a combination of a little bit of tired legs from having three days in between games.
But again, Kansas City is a phenomenal team and a phenomenally coached team.
They showed that in the first half tonight and showed that in the second half to finish the game out.
I’m extremely proud of my guys.
They fought back.
We had countless opportunities to take this in the second half and it just wasn’t meant to be.
There were tactical adjustments at halftime.
This is the last 45 minutes of our season if the score remains the same.
We went to a more aggressive style in the second half defending.
A lot of three-on-threes in the back with Salloi, Rubio and Russell pushing guys higher.
Putting Savarino centrally and pushing Damir up, bringing Saucedo on to create.
The tactical adjustments were there.
We tried to clean up Espinoza.
He was getting on the ball too much in the first half in the gaps and we talked about that.
It was no panic it was calm.
It was 45 minutes, boys.
Let’s get a goal and another one will come.
As a coach, you have many tough decisions to make looking at matchups, who you feel is more in form, who you feel can impact this game a bit.
Going back to Nick’s performance the last time we played them, the 1-1 tie here, it was a very tough decision.
Justen has played 33 games for us this year, and Justen is still a huge part of our future.
But coaches have to make tough decisions and it was the decision I went with.
That’s up to them, big picture.
That was the plan this year.
That’s why I played the most homegrown young players in the league.
You always want to win this year.
I want to win every game.
I want to win everything I do.
But there’s something in the back of your mind about playing young kids like this.
This is going to pay dividends next week, next month, next season.
It comes down to them realizing some of the mistakes that have been made this year and correcting them.
That’s part of being a professional.
That’s part of elevating your game.
If not, you’re just going to stay the same player.
I’m glad we got this experience with the young guys.
I think they came up big for us at certain times and at other times it was a learning experience for us.
I haven’t watched it.
The only thing that I said to the fourth official, which I stand by, is that the ball was in Nick’s hands.
I told him be certain that this is 100 percent.
Because this is not the kind of game that you go with the yeah, I called it.
Let’s go with it.
I think that he did well.
Was it Rubio who drew it? He did well with his body when I thought Nedum was going after the ball.
To me in a game like this, I’ll have to watch it.
I know things happen fast.
There is VAR.
But I was curious as the ball went right to Nick.
(Rubio) had no chance of getting that after that touch.
So, I don’t know.
That’s a tough thing to answer.
There was also Albert not available.
Corey was a last-minute thing yesterday.
He got a concussion in practice on a very interesting soft little hit to the head.
But it hit him in the right spot and he wasn’t right.
So, any time you have to make a change like that it changes our dynamic a little bit.
With all the experience Luis has and he’s very good with the ball and holding up, he doesn’t have Corey’s pace.
What we were looking forward to tonight was Corey’s pace getting behind the center backs.
Albert not being in there, I thought Damir filled in well.
Early on Damir dropped into our midfield defensively as a line of five because we didn’t want them penetrating us as much as they can.
Then Marcelo, I thought Besler had some very good moments tonight.
If I went with Justen tonight, Justen would’ve had some good moments as well.
I’ve said it before, every player’s downfall -- whether it’s suspension, injuries, anything else -- is another player’s opportunity.
Corey was going to start.
We were not scrambling but we had to figure a couple of things out and go with it.
It’s tough, to be honest with you.
Rollercoaster at times on and off the field.
Players continuing to buy into things and learn the system.
Players getting experience.
Overall, I felt that the players did enough to get in the playoffs and we went on a good run.
Beating LAFC; tying 1-1 at home on three days rest; then the game today.
They had opportunities as well, but I’m focusing on our opportunities that we could’ve taken this series.
But hey, hats off to Peter and his team.
They’re a team I’ve always admired from afar and I wish them the best of luck.
It’s halftime right now.
I will give my players credit because they were a little tired.
Kansas City is top of the West for a reason.
They’re extremely organized and won’t give you anything but tonight we didn’t give them much in terms of getting big time opportunities on goal.
Second half we came out with a heck of a lot more gusto, but in the first half we were kind of slow with the ball movement and our off-ball movement but our shape was very good for our second straight game.
It was an unfortunate situation on their goal, but it’s halftime right now.
It’s 1-1.
With a week’s rest, fresh with that same mentality as far as being compact and the off ball gets better, I’m looking forward to the game next Sunday.
Nick had the most touches on the ball, that he has had all year in the first half.
That is a credit to Sporting, because they are extremely organized and they move very well.
Our ball movement was not quick enough.
If you couple a team that moves very well together and the ball movement is slow, it makes it that much more difficult to penetrate.
I thought we got into good spots, but again, we were slow in reacting, slow in moving the ball, and facing forward.
That could come down to heavy legs.
Obviously playing against the number one team in the west, put it all together.
I think in the second half, the off-ball movement was a lot better.
We found Albert a lot more and Sunny who took a higher position, to turn and go.
At the end of the day, it is halftime and we have a seven-day halftime.
It was better off-ball movement.
It was quicker passes.
In the first half a lot of this guy to the guy next to him to the guy next to him and it was slow.
Allows them shift and clog stuff up very easily.
We bypassed players a bit more in the second half, the ball movement was quicker and the off-ball movement was quicker which allowed us to find gaps.
That’s not easy against a team like Kansas City because they are very well-organized.
The first half was a bit heavy legs and whatever reasons the second half we came out with a lot more energy and found those gaps.
It’s going to be a completely different game.
It’s going to be on the road in Kansas City, a place where we got a result earlier this year, but it’s going to be against a team that is going to play a bit differently.
The only things that won’t change is their organization but they are going to be a lot more aggressive going forward.
We’ve dealt with that this year many times.
Many times we weren’t successful and many times, like four days ago, we were successful.
As long as we are organized and not giving anything away, we are going to work on being a lot more explosive in transition and a lot more mobile and quicker on the off-ball movement to create gaps turn and face forward and them in their half.
We have six and half days.
It’s a tough task going into place like that against a team like this.
First half was, to me, a continuation of the last time we played [Portland].
Second half we turned it on.
Had some clear cut chances, didn’t convert them, and pushed players forward, made some tactical adjustments with less guys in the back and [Portland] got a third goal.
Overall, second half I’m proud of the guys.
Now it is what it is.
There’s a one-in-a-million chance now that we get to the playoffs.
That’s it.
Of course.
Had we not dropped one, two points at home this year when we did, even though we had a very good home record.
We didn’t let one or two games slip away, this would have been a non-factor.
Could have been, would have been, it’s not just about tonight.
He had two great saves on those shots.
Again, we didn’t find the back of the net.
Well in the first half, they were the ones again, like the first game, their urgency, stepping up, closing down, giving us no room to play.
Our bit of lack of off-ball movement, which is what we really talked about and worked on.
In the second half, obviously it was better.
Where they found spaces, it’s not so much that they found space, it was our lack of clogging that space up and our lack of shifting together, whereas second half it was better.
First, I need to give a big thank you to our academy and Martin Vasquez who is somewhat of a mentor at times to me and somebody who gives it to me straight.
We had them in on Friday of last week and we showed them a short film of how New England plays and we had an inter-team scrimmage and they mimicked exactly what we saw tonight, they mimicked exactly what we had to expect, and they did it unbelievably.
They’re a big reason why we got this result tonight.
I’m sure that the lineup raised a couple of eyebrows with some of the selection.
We had three players coming back from international duty that flew from as far as Qatar, as Joao did, and we had two suspensions with Kyle and Sunny.
The pairings I put out there were two-fold.
First, all of them had experience in this league, except for Nedum (Onuoha), all of them have played a significant amount of time in this league for me this year and last year, so there was no concern with having to bring these guys on.
I knew they were hungry; the pairing of Marcelo (Silva) and Nedum (Onuoha), we knew we were facing a team that was extremely athletic, extremely strong, extremely fast and aggressive and if you look at those two that’s a big part of their game.
Overall these guys stepped up for us and now it’s all about Sunday.
Anytime you score early like that on a great transition goal from one end to another it sets a tone.
When we came in at halftime, what was written on the board was zero-zero, because it didn’t matter what happened.
Nick’s was unbelievable for him to run that long and the great transition getting almost full field and the next two goals that came, but at halftime it was zero-zero.
Great goal from Nick, great goal in the first half, but for me what won it for me was our dedication, discipline and playing to the game plan that we put out over the last week.
Part of the reason I took this job was because I had to develop players, I had to have young players.
I had the option to have young players from an academy that are here, it intrigued me, and it was something I was extremely excited about.
The lessons that they’ve learned since I’ve been here from Justen (Glad) to now (Aaron Herrera), Brooks (Lennon) this year and last year, Danny Acosta, all these guys it’s valuable experience.
I feel tonight that Brooks Lennon and Aaron Herrera tonight were freakin’ men! They were absolutely freakin’ men tonight! Not 21-year-old kids that are learning and to me as a coach to see the result that we got and them being a big reason for that is a prideful thing.
I love this setup, I love that we have Martin (Vasquez) who is churning out the unbelievable talent from a young age that I have the option to bring on and to help get experience that could hopefully pay dividends and tonight it paid dividends.
Tonight is on me, I got the tactics wrong.
Thought we had a good game plan going in which we didn’t.
Now it is going to be an interesting last two games to see what we’re made of.
What did I see in the last 20 minutes? We lost.
We had energy for a bit when we equalized, a bit right after and then let it slip away.
Diego Valeri.
Valeri found pockets that we couldn’t keep track of, counter-attacking transition, and our inability to create energy and receive balls in right areas.
That’s a credit to Portland for their shape and their bite.
We’re going to see what we’re made of now.
From me, the coaching staff and straight down to the players.
It’s going to be two very tough games.
Paired with our last two games being 3 days apart for some reason.
It’s going to be an interesting game.
It means we’re without them so we have to figure out another course.
This point was massive, 100% massive for us.
Guys put everything, everything in there.
The game plan, obviously we knew we were going to be under it a lot.
That’s credit to Kansas City, especially here at this stadium.
This environment is unbelievable.
Corey’s goal was a perfect transition goal for us.
I honestly felt that we had the opportunity – if we were quicker, which usually we are – if we were quicker in transition to get at goal a couple more times and you never know what happens.
I think shots on goal was 6-3.
They obviously had a hell of a lot of shots.
But our compactness, our blocking, Nick’s saves, they were a little off the mark here and there – this is a well-earned point and one that we need.
We’re above the playoff line.
We’ve been there for four and a half months.
It’s in our hands now.
If we do what we have to do, then we will be okay.
I’m not really score checking at this point.
Albert played a very big role in the game tonight.
I make difficult decisions all the time.
When you look at the Houston game when Albert came on and won it for us, it was one of those situations tonight and Albert came on and provided us with exactly what we needed him to.
It was a situation we talked about all week as a coaching staff.
Do we really put him on his brother? Is that too much to ask? When we approached him about it, his immediate response was, ‘Absolutely, let’s do this.’ I don’t know if a brother ever marked a brother in an MLS game, you’ll have to look into the record books for that.
But I thought Nick did excellent tonight.
Listen, this is the best team in the league.
This is the toughest place to play in the league.
I’m proud of my guys as far as everybody working, everybody on the same page, the pressure on the sideline that we put, which was our plan.
They did everything I asked of them and the work rate was phenomenal, but it is a tough place to come in.
Obviously, the second goal we gave them.
The first goal you could argue as well that we just didn’t have in that single moment, we didn’t have the fight that we needed, but they are a quality team.
At the end of the day, it is a great learning experience for the guys, especially our young guys.
After the game talking about it, if the work rate and the movement that we had defensively –everybody committed – is there the rest of the year, we did it well in an environment like this against a team like this.
So, we have to continue the momentum, especially next week on the road at Kansas City, a similar team – a very talented team – our movement and our shape has to be very close to what it was tonight.
To me, there’s no difference in losing 1-0 or 5-0, to be honest with you.
If you are not pushing the play, then … what are you doing here? You should always be looking to win, so that’s why I did it.
We wanted three solid guys defending in the back.
… Last year, we had a lot of tough losses, and if you were safe if you lost 1-0.
Goal differential and maybe Nick (Rimando) is not happy with goals getting conceded when you have three in the back, but at the end of the day, I want to try to win.
Similar to what we did leading up to this match.
I thought that (Atlanta) forced us to play faster than we have, which is great.
Next week is going to be the same.
The kind of press Kansas City brings, just like Atlanta, is quick, it is numbers, a lot of numbers, and it is high intensity.
They force you to play quick, so (the) same stuff that we did leading up to Atlanta, we are going to have to continue against Kansas City.
I’m at a little bit of a loss.
In reality I didn’t see this coming and we allowed them to walk out of here with a point.
All the good that these players have done in these last three games, with really going for the jugular, we just didn’t seem to have that tonight.
We controlled the game still; did well against Quintero which was a main focal point considering how good he is.
We didn’t finish them off when we had opportunities and even before that I think our transition was sloppy.
We’ll take the point and now we have to find two points on the road, two more points than we were planning on getting.
Kyle’s substitution was about his hamstring.
I would never take Kyle out of a game if he’s healthy.
He’s our engine, he’s our warrior.
At halftime we noticed that he stretched his hamstring at least five times and we tried to work with him and Kyle, being the guy that he is and leader that he is, would never pull himself out and he said he felt something, but would give it a go.
I almost took him out at halftime because with the five games to go I can’t have someone like Kyle injured so I actually let him go in the second half 7 or 8 minutes longer than I wanted to and maybe should have.
That was a complete medical sub.
Who would’ve thought that we’d score six goals on the Galaxy, who would’ve thought that we’d score six goals the week before that and who would’ve thought that on the road in Houston we’d win in extra time? In the moment, which is how I live and how I want my players to live, yes, I’m not happy and not satisfied, but there’s different teams who, I don’t want to say have your number, but you find it a little difficult to play against and I’m not saying that’s it, but perhaps that is.
Perhaps Minnesota is that team for us this year who gave us issues.
When you keep a team like that in the game and have countless opportunities to put it away, someone like Quintero or whoever it is going to pull out a little bit of magic and we allowed that.
We were very specific throughout the week.
Hats off to my assistant coaches.
The amount of data and information that they not only put together for me, but more importantly for the players.
We have a young back line and tonight they shut down one of the best forwards in the last 10-15 years in the world.
The moments where they double teamed (Zlatan) Ibrahimovic were the perfect moments and the times they didn’t were the right times not to.
Hats off to my assistant coaches and hats off to these players.
I don’t honestly consider Damir as a forward tonight.
Him and Albert (Rusnak) rotated.
There were two positions tonight that we didn’t identify to our players that they were playing, that was Damir and Albert.
Someone had to occupy the center backs, and someone always had to drop in and I think most of the time Damir was the higher one.
Credit to these players.
We’re in fourth place right now starting four to five home grown players almost every game and without having a true number nine this entire season.
Does it get us in the playoffs? One thing I want to say about Damir and what impresses me about Damir is that he scores a hat trick and when he’s asked to come in here he sends Justen (Glad) and Nick (Besler).
That helps me and helps the locker room and that’s the type of player I want playing for me.
I’m very pleased.
I’ll just talk about the time before the second red card.
It was great that eleven-v-eleven, we scored a beautiful goal.
It was great to see guys like Joao [Plata] and Jefferson [Savarino] understanding how we wanted to defend them tonight, which was a little bit more narrow because of the diamond - put that into play and do some very good stuff out of it.
Kyle [Beckerman] and Sunny holding down the fort in front of the back four.
We had a specific plan coming into this game and you could tell the guys were up for it, the guys embraced the tactical game plan and put it to play, so I’m extremely happy for many things - the cup, but mostly the three points.
The two real main adjustments we made were, I thought that Joao [Plata] and Jefferson [Savarino] positioning-wise didn't have to come as narrow as they were, they could have come to an in-between spot and I thought that they burned us a couple of times on that and so we made that adjustment.
The other adjustment was exactly what we said it was 0-0 according to us at halftime, we had to have the balance.
We knew that they were going to play for counter attack as well as set-pieces, so just being patient on the ball, drawing them out, and then looking to penetrate behind, I thought they did a good job at that.
It shows that they learned a lot throughout the course of some tough times on the road, and at the end of the day if we’re fortunate enough to make the playoffs, we most likely are going to be on the road for at least a game, so we have to flip the switch on that mentality and start understanding how to manage games It’s okay to get a block and sit a little deeper at times as long as you know you’re doing the right thing out of it, whereas early on in the season, the mentality of our guys’ we wanted to go, go, go and we got stretched, so from Houston [Dynamo] last week to Colorado [Rapids] tonight we did a great block defending, denying, and looking to counter out of it - we did a great job.
I’m over the moon right now.
It wasn’t an easy game.
From the beginning, we took control.
The game plan tonight was very specific like it always is.
Tonight, it clicked as far as specifics that we wanted from our players, how we wanted to defend, where we wanted them to play the ball and capitalized in transition.
I’m ecstatic for them to be honest with you.
It’s one of the things that I’m most proud of.
It’s a little thing, but coming in 1-0 down, in a game that we dominated the first half, I tell them that the game plan does not change.
We had 12 or 13 shots.
We had five clear-cut chances on goal that perhaps should have gone in, so there was no need to panic, and they didn’t panic.
Towards the 80th minute, we started releasing with the subs, and we started releasing Brooks a little bit more, going man to man in the back.
Until then, the guys were calm.
The guys realized that it was coming.
I’ll say one more thing that towards the end of last year, we started getting these bounces.
This year, we lost the bounces a little bit in games, specifically, on the road.
Tonight, we earned the bounce, and I’m proud of the guys.
It was massive for the next week.
We have a huge game next week, but right now it’s massive.
I assume we jumped up to fifth or fourth place.
It’s so tight right now that a loss gets you back outside the playoffs.
For the moment, we’re pleased.
For the moment, we’ll take it, and we’ll enjoy it and then it’s back to work.
Everybody knows what he does.
Everybody watches him.
It wasn’t an easy thing go to him and the captain and say, ‘get a rescue tonight.’ They knew it was the right thing.
They felt a little heavy, three games in a week, but I told them both, this is most likely a scenario where you’ll play a big part of this game.
Albert got thrown in a little earlier than we wanted but look at the response he has.
It’s ironic that the last time we played Houston, Kyle comes off the bench and scores the game-winner.
Maybe that’s the recipe; I don’t know.
It’s not easy for a player like that to be thrown in last game in a hostile environment, where he made some nice saves and to come into this game.
I’m sure he felt the weight of the world on him.
Everything from his inexperience to his age to taking over this game to coming in for the best goalkeeper of the history in this league, hands down.
In the end, he did very well.
We’re pleased for him.
We have a young team and a lot of times I feel that we’re a little too quick to give praise which puts pressure on our players.
I’m certainly not going to do that now.
We’re happy for him right now, and if Nick is not ready next week, he’s got to do it again.
Well, we played a little differently today and there was a reason for that, as we have not gotten results on the road.
We really took a close look at how LA has fared against its last six opponents, and three of those results they didn’t get were against teams that played five in the back.
We have some experience with going five in the back, but moreso at home, at the end of the game when we’re winning.
We identified certain areas where we could frustrate them and look to counter.
In the first half we had two or three counter opportunities, and we didn’t put them away.
We left [Christian] Ramirez pretty much wide open on two goals and he’s going to put those away.
I thought he came on in a very difficult situation, without experience in that situation, and I thought he did very well.
From a bad thing where Nick [Rimando] got hurt, it’s almost a good thing that he went into a situation like that where he didn’t have time to think, just go on and just do his thing.
It was, at times, losing mark, giving too much space to a damn good player.
We talked about him before the game, and yesterday he was in the paper for god sake, quoting that his role with LAFC was to be a poacher and he got two poaching goals right there.
We talked about it, so I thought besides that, obviously they’re a very talented team, LAFC, there’s a lot of money spent into this roster.
We were tied shots (on goal) three to three at halftime, I know they had most of possession, but a lot of that was by design from us, but the other half of it was that they’re a good team and they’re at home.
It was just two momentary lapses that cost us and it seems to be a theme, specifically on the road.
It’s a little frustrating.
Teams, to their credit, come in a do a good job of getting behind the ball and looking to counter-attack.
Tonight we had numerous opportunities to put them away and we just couldn’t find that one.
A point is a point, it might feel like two dropped points, but a point is a point.
We look forward now to two very tough games on the road.
Brooks is getting better and better every game defensively.
We see a big improvement on a weekly basis with his positioning, his one-on-one defending, his bite.
I would like to see Brooks get more involved in the attack – which is strange because he is an actual winger – finding that balance.
Brooks has been chipping away at the right back position week in and week out.
He’s not a finished product but I’m happy with where he is at right now.
It’s three points.
Any points we can get out of that game – it’s going to be an extremely tough game, it’s a very stacked roster, good personnel from player to player, it’s going to be an extremely difficult game for us.
There is no revenge factor, it’s a completely different time of the season, a different venue.
It’s going to be tough but we are already planning for that.
This is a game that is very difficult to play in.
A team that quickly gets back behind the ball with five in the back and gives you really no space to play in then launches long balls in transition.
It was a difficult situation to try and break them down.
We were talking about ways to maybe have us sit back a little bit and let them come out and play so that maybe in transition we can get them.
It was difficult in the first half – we had a ton of possession, some opportunities, besides maybe the ball movement wasn’t quick enough at times, I thought the players did well.
It’s always difficult to come over from another league, especially from Europe and South America, to Major League Soccer - the travel, the speed and play, the physical aspect.
The amount we talk in detail with Damir throughout the week to better have him understand what we expect of him and what we want from him – he has a tough situation because I need him to play both sides of the ball probably more than anybody on this because of his position.
He is understanding now when I want him to get higher up on the field and when I need him to be back.
In the beginning there was a lot of conversations and a little confusion, but tonight you could see it - the timing of his runs, the goals.
He is an honest, hard-working guy and we are very fortunate to have him.
I want players who express themselves, that understand it’s about the name on the front of the jersey.
That’s what’s important.
We have those players and players who aren’t here anymore are players who didn’t have those qualities.
Kyle Beckerman for example, he’s a leader by example, by work, he is proud to be part of this organization and he has been here for so long.
That’s why when we bring players in, we need to do our research and not just off the quality on the field.
It’s just as much about the character of the person and where he is going to fit personality wise in the locker room.
Besides me yelling probably more than Freddy did? We talked a lot this week about where we are in the standings, how many points are left up for grabs and how many points we think we need.
It’s a credit to this group that we’ve been in the playoff picture for three months now.
We’ve been above the line, but we need to stay there.
The guys are at the point in the season right now where it’s starting to get crunch time.
Not that they didn’t realize before but they are really starting to realize now that time is precious in the last twelve games and we have to make the most of it.
We opened up the game, dominated, break comes and the only thing they changed was a bit more bite.
They were a bit more aggressive and we didn’t handle it well.
When I say ‘we’, I mean the coaches, the players, and me sitting up top.
We are all in this together.
Two points slipped away and now we are obviously going to refocus and get ready for San Jose.
If I had to narrow it down on what the lesson is that there can’t be any complacency whatsoever.
We go up the way we started, we should have come out of the break completely focused and ready to go.
Put a lot more pressure on them, quicker ball movement around that pressure.
That’s the lesson to be learned.
Damir has two clear-cut chances that got away from him, Corey has a one-on-one and he maybe should have taken a second touch.
We outshot them in the first half and I thought we were organized coming out of half time.
I believe Albert and Luis were sent through on one-on-ones, we did enough to get a result tonight.
I thought in the first half that they were relying very much on Quintero and I think we did a good job with them.
We gave a little too many set pieces to them early on, but the response was good.
Listen, the response was good in the past five or six previous road games.
The start was good in half of them and finish was good in the other half, it’s a 90-minute thing though.
It was great to have him come on and contribute to two goals.
What can you say about a player coming off the bench and having two goals? It was a great response for him.
I’m happy for him and for the team.
You can tell that he’s not hanging his head and he’s working hard.
That’s a tactical thing game by game.
We did it in Columbus, and it looked good.
Tonight, we did it, and I thought that he freed himself up well and got his opportunities.
He didn’t put them away, but they were tough takes for him.
I think it’s going to be a game by game thing, tactically who we’re playing against and for which games we think it could work.
It could be mentality, if I had that answer I’d be coaching Barcelona and we win every game in history.
I don’t have that answer.
We prepare, the players are up for it.
You have to give credit to Minnesota as far as doing what they had to do to get a result.
Maybe, perhaps it comes down to mentality from everybody.
I’m not pointing to just the players, it’s everybody.
Schuller goes in on Danny Acosta, studs up, a foot off the ground into his leg.
If he is a foot to the left of Danny, face on, he breaks his leg.
Does none of this crap that the referees do to the VAR? It’s a yellow card.
Marcelo gets a yellow card 12 minutes later for toe poking the ball during a set piece fifteen yards away? What are we doing here? Quintero on the goal, doesn’t look at the ball.
Plays literally not the ball, runs in and extends his arm, looks at the last second and they score.
And then it’s this crap again.
Let me tell you something, the conversations with the fourth official over the last four games was starting three games ago, Savarino is being targeted.
You know what the fourth official tells me? “Yeah, I know, we talked about it.
We’ve watched it, we’re good.” And continuous fouls, fouls, fouls, nothing.
But I don’t want to talk about the last four games though, I wanna talk about tonight.
Because up until that point, we had more shots leading into the second half.
We were blocked up, we were good at denying anything.
It’s not good enough.
The only thing I get from the MLS is, “stop criticizing the referees.” I want to know where the referees are at now?
Why can’t we ask the referees a question? Why can’t we do that? Why can’t we ask “Why didn’t you go to VAR?” “Why when the studs are coming up, you just give a yellow card?” That would make them more human.
To the MLS, it would be better for the league.
For the fans, for the owners, for the coaches, for the players, to hear from them.
And hear their side of the story.
Perhaps, we say okay I see it, maybe it happened a little fast.
Maybe the guy in the booth, wherever the hell he is, watching this.
You know, maybe he was watching the Simpsons at the same time, I don’t know.
I have no idea, but it’s not good enough to me.
I thought the guys who went out there did an excellent job.
 You guys know me well enough that I talk a lot about doing the things that we talk about.
 Tonight they did it for a large chunk of it.
 It’s a good team we played against in both halves.
 The one thing I liked was the times that we lost it a little bit and they gained momentum, we got the momentum back eventually.
 There were a lot of very good individual performances.
 As a whole, to be honest with you, I think we moved well together.
 We counter-attacked well together.
 We possessed the ball together.
 I’m pleased.
 I’m very pleased with the performances tonight.
Barry was 30 minutes planned.
 He hasn’t played competitively in four months so we built him back to get him to training full time and it doesn’t matter how much you train in a practice, it’s very different movement and very different situation when you play on a full field in a competitive game.
 So it was a predetermined 30 minutes.
Brody got the start tonight and he did excellent getting the goal.
 Brody is a bundle of energy, nonstop, and he has quality about him.
 And again, there’s a reason why Mark, Jamison, Matt and I met a lot in the preseason and went over what this club wants to be and play.
 You can see that when they come up they fit right in.
 Gallagher coming on at 30 minutes, I thought he did an excellent job.
 Moberg and Rhys Williams fitting in nicely and plugging some stuff at the end.
 Then you take it a step further and look at guys like Taylor Peay and Nick Besler who came from the Monarchs last year, they all know the way that we want to play and it was great to see tonight.
I thought Plata did very well.
 We saw a lot of things that we’ve been demanding of him.
 We saw a lot of it come out tonight.
 Plata’s quality on the ball is never in question.
 I thought he had a great attitude tonight.
 Along with guys like Luis who at one point were in, but through a combination of a lot of things they’ve been coming off the bench recently but they’re still a huge part of this team and they’re big players.
 They led this team not only by their attitude but by their example on the field.
I thought our players managed the game perfectly.
Dallas is a very good team, but they’ve also become more of a direct team.
With three games in the week and then coming into the altitude, we knew they were going to sit in for large chunks of the game and look for a counter attack.
The patience that we had, at times it was a bit boring but I couldn’t care less.
We knocked the ball around, got them running, tired them out a little bit and looked to find gaps.
It’s a credit to the players to realize that.
We talked about it, but then to actually do it knowing that we were just keeping it in our half.
It was a great way to manage the game and then things opened up.
It’s fun.
We’ve been good at home.
We’ve got results at home.
Now the focus is Minnesota next week on the road.
Any week you can get six points, two wins in a row, against the top team in the West on that day, it’s special and it’s a great feeling.
The guys are already focusing on Minnesota.
They were talking about it after the game and pumping each other up, saying that we have to get the show on the road and get it done.
That’s been our Achilles heel this year, but there is still a lot of time.
There are a lot of games on the road left.
I’m not ready to say something has clicked for Bofo.
The chance was always there for him to take and while he is far from being a finished product, which is a compliment to him, he has grown up a bit over the last couple months, along with Danny.
They have realized I’m willing to give opportunities but they have to earn it.
As of now, Bofo has earned his opportunity.
It doesn’t mean next week he is going to start.
We have to see how he does this week.
His commitment, his work rate, his dedication, his selflessness have been all on display.
He has to continue to do that or else there is somebody else waiting.
The coaching staff and I gave Jefferson a ball tonight because we’ve been preaching in him and really challenging him and riding him for 90 minute to be focused.
We know what he can do offensively, but I want to see his commitment defensively, to get back.
I thought he was phenomenal at that aspect tonight.
We’ve been waiting for that for a while and he put it on display tonight.
You can see in the 88th minute, him sprinting 30 yards back, closing and getting a tackle in.
That was the one thing that was too infrequent from him for a while.
He is a star player with the ball at his feet, but whatever next level he wants to get to, this is what it’s going to take.
Long answer to a short question, I thought it was important to recognize that.
